The typical organizational
structures have always been three,
which are Functional, we are divided
by functions, Divisional, we
are structured into different divisions,
Matricial, which is the combination
of the two previous, and
by Projects, which is the
current trend.
Let’s start with the functional organizations.
In this case, what does it consist of?
It is very simple, we can see it on screen.
We will structure the
organization according to, being redundant,
the different functions
that are within a company,
which is what you can understand
by Departments.
Marketing, Sales, Finance, Operations,
Systems, etc.
What are the benefits of this?
It has certain benefits.
They are simpler structures.
Usually small companies
are structured like this almost
naturally.
What we is that many synergies
are generated, because you
can work with people who
have some knowledge, skills,
very concrete experiences
and the same.
Those in the Department of Finance, because
everyone knows about Finance and work
together and understand each other well.
That said, the simplicity we’ve
seen, the synergies, etc., functional
organizations have a big
disadvantage.
And it’s that you’re structuring
the organization in a way that’
s not aligned with strategic goals,
because in the end you’re
creating departments.
So we’ll think of Finance, Marketing,
etc., which measure their
productivity, have the
goals they don’t have to have
in mind the real or strategic
goals of the company.
I will give you an example.
Let’s think about the product department.
The Product Department at the end of the
year, because you will be measured by,
imagine, because you will get X products
per year, etc.
But it is very possible that they don’t
have the customer in mind, that they don’
t have the customer experience in mind.
And that makes us sometimes use
the products you say, but
what were you thinking about?
Because they obviously forgot
about the client.
And this is the result of that.
It is the result of which the product
design did not take the customer into account.
It is usually a result of a functional
structure.
Another disadvantage is, which
is very related to this, that
employees lose vision.
Because what happens is that they
are alone, that is, they are in
their function, but lose sight
of strategic goals or how their
work affects or contributes
to the goals.
This creates dismotivation.
You become very expert, very functional.
The third disadvantage is that communication
between departments is
very poor.
Because in the end, you think, finance
and marketing, well, because they are
different people, with different training,
with different goals that are not
absolutely, they have no motivation
to understand each other, in
fact they do not usually understand
each other.
And when one has to get into the
work of the other, because you usually
see it as if you are touching
your nose, said in some way.
Now let us look at the
structures or divisional organizations.
In this case, we are organized
according to different
divisions.
Divisions can be by geographies,
imagine that we structure
the entire organization according
to the different countries in
which we are.
Or it’s a smaller lawyer’s office, imagine,
and we have a headquarters in Madrid,
another in Barcelona and
another in Valencia and we
create divisions.
For example, we can
create products.
Imagine we have, that we are a
car manufacturer and we have
several models and we create
divisions by model.
Or by brands, we have several
brands and each brand functions as
a division.
You probably understand the concept.
You also have to keep in mind that
each division is almost like a
small company, because it has
its goals, has its budget, etc.
The advantage of this, of division
over functions, is that you
are structuring the company
in a way that is more aligned
with the company’s goals.
You’re not creating those silos that
people think only about their
function, their tasks, but lose
in perspective.
The company is more aligned with
the goals.
This is the great advantage of divisions.
The disadvantage is that they can
generate inefficiencies and I will
explain it with an example.
We have divisions by countries, by countries
in Europe, imagine.
We have France, we have Italy,
we have the UK.
Each one functions as a small
company that has its own goals,
resources, budgets, etc.
And its functional departments
also within each division.
We have marketing in each
country.
We have x marketing employees,
who also work completely
independently.
The marketplace in Spain has
nothing to do with the marketplace
in the UK.
Here, first, a doubling of costs
is being generated, because
you can have people who are doubling.
But it’s not just a question
of cost duplicity, it’s a matter
of not generating a
joint learning.
Imagine that within Spain a very
powerful initiative is being launched
that improves the customer experience.
It is not working for
Europe, it is working for
Europe.
And it is very likely that then extrapolating
those initiatives to other countries
will take a long time, there will
be many barriers to overcome, etc.
We can organize ourselves
by functions and by divisions.
The matrix, the matrix organizations,
what they do is a mixture
of the two.
A matrix has two dimensions.
We are going to be structured by
functions and by divisions.
Every person will have two
bosses.
You will report to your superior or your
functional boss.
Imagine you work in the marketing
department, reporting
to the CMEO.
But you also have a boss who
can be, imagine, the CEO in a particular
country or the manager
of a product.
What are the benefits of this?
Well, basically what we are trying
to do is combine the advantages
of the two types of organizations.
We will that the organization
is oriented to the results of
the company because we are structuring
ourselves according to
products or business lines
or countries, etc.
But we generate certain synergies
because we have cross-functions
and what they do is
serve everyone.
I will give you an example.
Remember, we talked about having
divisions in each of the countries.
We pick up and the marketing
department centralizes it.
And we have a marketing department
for all of Europe that
serves all divisions
in different countries.
Well, because it is easy to understand
that many synergies will be generated
like this, that we will avoid duplicities.
Maybe we need fewer resources
and we can put them to
work on initiatives or support
all divisions, so the impact
will be much greater.
One of the disadvantages of
matricials may be that the power
line is unclear.
It is easier when you know you report
to a single boss than when you report
to two bosses.
In some cases, there
can be tensions.
But what is clear is that almost
all major organizations have
in recent years tended to be
structured by matrices.
Therefore, it is obvious that the
benefits are greater than the disadvantages.
And finally, let’s talk about the organization
by projects, which is a very
clear and unstoppable trend.
That allows us to be more
adaptive, to be more agile,
to put in place many projects,
to be more flexible.
So what does this consist of?
Regardless of your structure,
whether functional, matricial,
divisional, it doesn’t matter,
what you do is create projects
that are temporary organizations
made up of people who can be in
different departments,
even in different countries,
that you put them to work with
a common mission, with a common
and temporary goal.
One of the advantages of organizing yourself
by projects, in addition to being
more agile, is that you encourage
employee motivation.
Because it is more motivating to work
with a specific mission for a specific
time period and know that you will
contribute to that and that it also
has a huge impact on the organization,
that you take your whole life going
to your workplace and have
your tasks and you do not know
very well what the impact of what
you are doing is.
It is clearly that people work more
motivated with temporary
missions and projects.